## 1. Know Which Version of Python You're Using

* There are two major versions of Python still in active use: Python2 and Python3. 
* There are multiple popular runtimes for Python: CPython, JPython, IronPython, PyPy, etc.
* Be sure that the command-line for running Python on your system is the version you expect it to be.
* Prefer Python 3 for your next project because that is the primary focus of the Python community.

**Notes to self:**
* Python2 will be gone soon: https://python3statement.org/

## 2. Follow [the PEP 8 Style Guide](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/)

* Always follow the PEP 8 style guide when writing Python code.
* Sharing a common style with the larger Python community facilitates collaboration with others.
* Using a consistent style makes it easier to modify your own code later.

**Notes to self:**
* GitHub app PEP 8 Speaks helps detect PEP 8 coding style violation: https://pep8speaks.com/

## 3. Know the Differences Between `bytes`, `str`, and `unicode`

* In Python 3, `bytes` contains sequences of 8-bit values, `str` contains sequences of Unicode characters. `bytes` and `str` instance can't be used together with operators (like > or +).
* In Python 2, `str` contains sequences of 8-bit values, `unicode` contains sequences of Unicode characters. `str` and `unicode` can be used together with operators if the `str` only contains 7-bit ASCII characters.
* Use helper functions to ensure that the inputs you operate on are the type of character sequence you expect (8-bit values, UTF-8 encoded characters, Unicde characters, etc.)
* If you want to read or write binary data to/form a file, always open the file using binary mode (like 'rb' or 'wb').

TBC
